# Developer upadate notes

**Part 1a upadates**

- Some missing documentation in part 1a methods in gensnd.c have been added. 
- DTMF sample constuctor algorithm have been updated to be more efficient.
- atoi change to atof in main.c

**Part 1b upadates**

- Added 4 new methods in gensnd.c with complete documentation. 

**Part 1c upadates**

- Added sound.h for sound structs from gensnd.h
- part1a prototype methods removed from gensnd.h and gensnd.c
- Added 3 new methods in gensnd.c with complete documentation. 
- Created iosnd.h and iosnd.c hat contains outputSound method
- Create files process.c and process.h that contains 5 new methods with complete documentation. 
- Created the main function in playsong.c


### Table of Contents

- [Part 1a](##Part-1a)
- [Part 1b](##Part-1b)
- [Part 1c](##Part-1c)

## Part 1a

**main.c should contain:**
```sh
main()
```
- This will execute gensine will take in standard inputs to produce the samples of the tone.

**main2.c should contain:**

```sh
main() 
```
- This will execute phone_pad that will take in standard inputs and generate phone number tone.

**gensnd.c should contain:**

```sh
gensine()
```
- This function takes in frequency, sampleRate, duration as a float parameter
and outputs the total samples.

```sh
DTMF() 
```
- This is a private function that helps adding the two frequency to help outputs the total samples for the phone pad in main2.

```sh
phone_pad() 
```
- This method takes in a char and that represents the key on the phone pad. The function then outputs to standar out the tones that are generated by that keypress.

```sh
make_silence()
```
- This method just generates silence tones.

## Part 1b

**gensnd.h has a struct:**

```sh
typedef struct sound_t sound;
```
- A member of type “float *”is apointer to afloat array named “samples”that are the samples in the sound.  
- A member of type int named “length”that is the number of the samples in the array.
- A float named “rate”that is the sample rate for the sequence of samples.

**gensnd.c added functions:**

```sh
sound *gensine2(float hertz, float sample_rate, float duration);
```
- This function acts just like gensine except that it returns a pointer to the structure defined above.The size of the returned array in the structure must be exactly that of the number of samples generated in this function.

```sh
sound *genDTMF2(char key, float sample_rate, float duration)
```
- This function creates the correct dual tones except that it is at the specified sample rate and duration given in the parameters.  In addition, the dual tones are returned the structure defined above and the array in the structure that must be exactly the size asthe number of samples generated by the function.

```sh
sound *genSilence(float sample_rate, float duration)
```
- This function outputs samples of value 0 at the specified sample rate and duration.  In addition, the samples are returned in the structure defined above and the array in the structure must be exactly the same size as the number of samples generated by the function. 

```sh
int outputSound( sound *s, FILE *f)
```
- Where “s” is the sound tooutput to the file, and “f “ is a file descriptor to the output file. The return value is 0 if it succeededin writing the file, and 1 if any error occurs.

## Part 1c

**gensnd.c added functions:**

```sh
sound * genSquare( float hertz, float sample_rate, float duration);
```
- Generate a squarewave with the specified frequency, sample_rate, and duration. 

```sh
sound * genTriangle( float hertz, float sample_rate, float duration);
```
- Generate a trianglewave with with the specified frequency, sample_rate, and duration.

```sh
sound * genSawtooth( float hertz, float sample_rate, float duration);
```
- Generate a sawtooth wave with with the specified frequency, sample_rate, and duration.

**process.c added functions:**

```sh
sound* mix(sound *s[],float w[], int c);
```
- A method that will mix ignals at various sound levels.This function takes an array of sound points and an array of volume levels represented by floats.  The parameter c specifies the number of sounds and volumes present in the arrays.  The pointer to a sound structure returned is the sum of all the sounds weighted by the floats in w.
```sh
sound* modulate(sound *s1, sound *s2);
```
- Create an amplitude modulator where the amplitude of one signal controls the amplitude of another signal. By just multiply point bypoint two sound signals together. 
```sh
sound* filter(sound *s, float fir[], int c);
```
- Create a digital filter that will be used to create lots of effects. The processing is performed by summing samples by real numbers in an operation called convolution.
```sh
sound* reverb(sound *s, float delay, float attenuation);
```
- Create a digital reverb filter.  (Reverb is the sound you hear inside a large room, and you can think of it as a really short echo.) This is computed using the filter function with the fir array set to all zeros except for two locations.
```sh
sound* echo(sound *s, float delay, float attenuation);
```
- The functions acts the same as reverb but directly compute the output from the sound.